

re thinking infrastructure as a right as it partsins to public utilitizrs 


I want to talk a little bit about what it means to redefine a public utility as we know them today. Currently, when we speak about public utilities it tends to revolve mostly around the notion of power and water. And at one point communications but that's highly dependent on which region of the country you are in. Period.

I want to think of public utilities as decentralized utilities. What I mean by that is, utility. As I would define it would be a service that is given right to today individual living on Earth. So as it stands right now, that could be power, water, food security transportation data and communications, etc. Currently, most of these services are not necessarily insured by some form of a government agency, although there are typically systems to help you with food insecurity. They're not considered nor they managed to run in the same way utility typically is, which can sometimes be government run and can sometimes be a private entity that is running a government like service. Period. The issue with most utility systems is typically it's a race to the bottom, when it comes to implementing the actual services that they're providing. And this is typically because the only way they tend to get new methods of funding from the government or from shareholders, is by investing in new infrastructure, but many of these utilities do not have any incentive to maintain the infrastructure. Currently we see this as a main result of what has lead led to a lot of the California wildfires in recent years. However, I feel that it extends greatly to other markets. This is why, for example, if you go to the middle of the United States, like Chicago. The average data speeds are half that of what you could get in Silicon Valley,

what I'm proposing is a new way to qualify and classify utilities. If we think of utilities has been anything that provides a service to a person, as a human rights. Then, a new way to categorize them could potentially be thinking about them in a more decentralized fashion, in which a small group is either joining together, or an individual has access to something that is allowing them to maintain or game that utility. I think instead of the current government funding towards building new infrastructure that current funding could be realigned to companies that are creating products that are allowing people to maintain their own infrastructure. And this feels it could go hand in hand with some autonomy, or AI in the future. What I think could be interesting to look at is how we zone utilities, as well. If we could create utility zero zones, if you will, in which on multiple levels a small community, or even better on individuals household could essentially maintain itself, by any means necessary. What would it look like for them to be able to produce all of the following systems that I listed earlier by themselves. So they don't actually need to rely on any governmental agency. Now, a lot of this obviously has problems when you begin to scale it over time in that an entire apartment building for example does not necessarily have enough square footage to maintain the previously listed utilities for an individual. However, one approach to that could be subsidizing the gaps in a given grid. By using public infrastructure to help reinforce that. What I mean that that is public parks could be used for water collection, which then helps offset the deficit of collection from a apartment building. Yes, this would require more parks, but it would also encourage us to build more parks at the same time. Another way to look at this is libraries for example, typically seen as centers of knowledge. We could leverage these to offset, these giant centralized data centers that are typically owned by companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook, and instead. If we distribute these data centers to be smaller locations that are typically based in one's home. Ideally integrated into one's router. And perhaps libraries can act as kind of Pico centers that help reinforce any instabilities that the at home systems would have so we're building some resiliency into the system.

Thinking about resiliency a bit more. I think right now, we tend to have pretty big utility systems like if you look at pg&e. You look at Comcast. These are massive infrastructure projects that can only ever be maintained and installed by a multibillion dollar corporation. And there's tremendous benefits to that when you're thinking about things like underwater sea cables or laying fiber throughout an entire city. But I think we need to restructure how we think of utility and the scales at which it needs to operate. To ensure that we have less instability as systems grow over time. How I would suggest we classify the scales of systems would be in the following ways. You have a Pico grid, which is an individual household, or units in which someone dwells. I think in a city, a Pico grid could expand potentially to being the size of a individual building or a plot of land that individuals co own. Then after that you would have a micro grid, which could be several city blocks. So micro grid would consist of Pico grids and micro grids would rely on larger pieces of infrastructure. So each micro grid would need to have, say, a library, a park system, a gym, you know, things that could offset potential instabilities in the Pico grids. In the event of extraneous use in some fashion. Other than that, ideally, nothing would go beyond micro grid. However, I think for the purpose of the consistent climate instability that we're going to continue to face. We also do need to allow for micro grids to interact with other micro grids at a city level. And what I mean by this is, let's say a, you know, Hurricane hits Texas which is obviously going to happen again. And it's going to wipe out all of their power. What would it look like for say, Louisiana, to be able to send grid energy to Texas to make up for that instability if part of their infrastructure is wiped out or not available in terms of the classification of grades I think those are the only thoughts I have right now. One of the other things I want to look at is how we reference and refer to the stability of a grid. And I think there should be a rating system of one through three. I think most grids in their ideal fashion. At a Pico level should have a stability level of zero, meaning that they need. Zero external intervention, in order to maintain themselves. Then a series one level, you would have the need for it to potentially partner with a local micro grid to make up for potential deficits in the event of a natural disaster. And then at a two level, which would probably be the two and three would be micro grids communicating with other micro grids but at different scales, as well as the ability for them to engage with temporary infrastructure that can be brought in. In the event of natural disasters.Now I want to expand a bit on what I mean by reclassifying, the typesof things that today we would reference as public utilities to ideally decentralized utilities that use a backup public infrastructure in the events of either emergencies or just distribution of excess loads and stuff like that. So for power. I think this would be any means of power generation, or distribution, which could mean anything from solar to geothermal, wind hydro for communications and data. That would be things mostly like caching services that allow you to, you know, store, maybe local versions of Wikipedia, or you know if everyone's trying to watch the same Game of Thrones movie, well there's no reason all of us need to ask our computers to request that file from a data center in the middle of Nevada for living in Wisconsin. We can just store it locally in our neighborhood. And instead, retrieve it from there to reduce the overall bandwidth and the footprint of us retrieving that data. I think this also involves opportunities for more peer to peer and self hosting clients. So there's no reason an individual shouldn't be able to host their own email at home with complete data security and complete data privacy, if they so choose. That really shouldn't take that much infrastructure, emails are pretty small, if they continue to be in the form that they are now for the next say 20 years. There should be no reason we need to rely on giant external parties like Google to maintain things like email calendar, SMS services, and things of that nature. I think at a larger level, like library systems or city. City systems that have some form of data utility to support households, could be more infrastructure based. So these could be things that allow you to access public archives of information. Backing up larger personal datasets, that type of thing. We think of water. I think of waters. Both fresh water. Water collection water storage and water treatment. So this could be anything from how you're filtering existing greywater systems which we different parts of the world do better than others, Francis pretty profound how well they provide fresh water infrastructure to their citizens and how well and efficient they are recycling, what would be considered black water systems. Food Systems currently aren't qualified as utility. But, Governor the government does subsidize food and security, so I don't see why it couldn't become a utility. I would qualify this as an individual being able to grow a certain percentage of their food on their own home. It would be beautiful if this could be you know wonderful outdoor garden space that everyone could have access to, but I think more realistic future is on site space for some form of a indoor robotic farm that can allow food to be grown in almost any environment, but still providing nutrition and protein and such. There was more of these, transportation, I think most, most of this is currently seen at a city scale already, but I think is those types of systems. If we see, at least the emergence of things like Tesla allow you to, you know, rent your car and allow others to summon your car after you purchase it. I think we'll see more shared public transit infrastructure. One of the most efficient systems today tend to typically be trains and bicycles. I think after being in Taiwan for a bit. There's clearly an opportunity for the scooter market as well, to use. Wow, it's raining a lot. All right, this recording may stop in a moment. Anyhow, I think we need to explore those different types of transportation systems as well. I think this is probably the main one that has to be done at the micro grid level, but I think the batteries in the vehicles which we own can help support local grids, and possibly bring power to different parts of the grids, especially in natural disasters and outages and things like that, and prevent outages and things like that. And then the last one. See we had power, water, food, communications and data. Does it. Oh, this is the last one. I have no idea how you implement this. Well that's I'm sure I have some idea. I think waste systems. Get a hard pass, and are blatantly ignored by most places because they don't need to deal with it they don't want to deal with it we don't want to look at it or pay attention to it. But I think we need to consider them to be a utility as well. I think what that means is that's everything from how are you upcycling waste into this potentially into the potential food system that you might have at home. This is looking at how are you taking the goods that you need for parties and events, and making sure that they aren't these very permanent plastic objects that tend to persist in our oceans for decades or centuries rather, and how do we use biodegradable things and biodegradable components and how can they be biodegradable outside of industrial composting facilities, because I understand that that is a good step but I think realistically that still implies that the product needs to last significantly longer than it has to to serve its function and purpose. So understanding how we can basically take all human waste systems and reduce them as much as possible. I think a massive positive directional step in this would be moving away from all forms of things that go to landfill and replacing all of them with things that are biodegradable ideally what this would mean is in different regions, you would have production facilities that would produce highly, shall we say, consumable goods. So think of a red solo cup plastic silverware stuff like that. Instead of shipping those plastic components nationally, you would have regional offices that would distribute and produce those goods, the materials that those goods are produced out of would be biodegradable, and they would serve to replenish that particular region in which they're being consumed and used to help like a local biosphere that we've destroyed over years. This would be one way that we could help to replenish the system that we've spent decades destroying. Ideally, this would expand to other products as well. I think it's much harder when you think of things like, you know, phones, computers, electronic devices, those likely will need to be done still at a city or corporate scale. But ideally, I think there's a way in which we shift that model to. I think this is it for now. Just some thoughts and how we can possibly be classify utilities in a more decentralized way that returns ownership to individuals and helps replenish the earth as we do it.


